---
aliases:
date: 2026-01-10
tags:
  - diary
Mood: 40
Exercise: 60
Study: 60
JournalX: 65
---

# key takeaways 💭

Yesterday, I had a date with Chan, and  she shared a few things that made me concerned.

First, she seems doesn't really have a sense of finance balance. I've been covering every bill, even the small ones. This isn't about money itself. It's about values. It's because I believe financial awareness is an important part of any relationship. When something is always free, it often loses its value.

Second, she said our relationship currently feels like ex-colleague only. Logically, I can see her point. But emotionally, I feel confused. People who talk every day, stay up late calling, and go out together multiple times don't usually feel like "just colleagues."

Third, she told me she doesn't know me very well, and I think she's right. I've mostly been listening to her stories and her feelings, rather than sharing my own. That's on me - and it's something I can change. I could be more proactive in sharing - or even simple ask her if she wants to hear more about my story.

The most confusing part was her idea of "circles" - that basic information is only the outer layer, and that many more layers must be crossed before a serious relationship. I'm not sure how to interpret this. Is this a heathy boundary, or does she see me more as a brother than a romantic partner? Does she speak from her real feelings - or mainly from her reasoning.

After the date, I realized that we understand each other better, including each other's perspectives and emotions. Still, I'm left with some negative feelings that I can't fully name yet. Something my mind understands her reasoning, but my heart resists it.

I also noticed that I've been following her direction more than I'm comfortable with. That imbalance matters to me.
I think I need to understand how women think in relationships more deeply. Should I ask for advice from friends, or reflect more on my own boundaries - or both?
