---
aliases:
date: 2026-01-02
tags:
  - diary
Mood: 120
Exercise: 80
Study: 80
JournalX: 100
---

# key takeaways 💭

Today, I went on a date with Chan - our first date (1/1/2026). From my perspective, it felt successful. We watched Avatar 3, had dinner, and then spent time talking at a cafe. 

Overall, the experience was very positive, except for one concern about financial balance. She come across as smart, sophisticated, and thoughtful. At the same time, I sense there's something hidden that I don't fully understand yet. I don't want to simply follow her lead - I want to walk my own path in this connection.

I also curious about her brother. He's one year older than me, and from the way she described him, he sounds interesting and thoughtful. He also seems to have a deep relationship with his young sister.

During the movie, we talked quietly at moments, and it felt like there was mutual understanding - or at least that's how I felt to me.
At dinner, she shared stories about her work place, which turned out to be a strong common ground for us. We exchanged perspectives and connected more deeply.
Afterward, we rode on my motorbike through Binh Tan streets at night. I really loved that part - talking, watching the city, and just being present. I chose a cafe with a relaxed vibe, and we stayed there talking until closing time.

I took her home and then headed back to my place. We exchanged a few more messages to end the day.

It was a great first date. I felt safe, comfortable, and sensed genuine chemistry.
