---
aliases:
date: 2026-01-19
tags:
  - diary
Mood: 110
Exercise: 80
Study: 50
JournalX: 30
---

# key takeaways 💭

Chan and I have an extremely meaningful date - in term of context, preparation, quality time, and outcome.

I picker her up from her place around 4 PM. We have a short discussion about where we go. At first, I planned to visit a cafe to study Go, but when I though the park might me a better idea. Chan mentioned that the closest park can be dark and not very safe, so we eventually decided to go the Creative Park in District 2. Even though it was quite far, it was absolutely worth it.

Before heading to the park, we stopped by Sala city. I introduced it to her as "the Running Heaven". It was her first time here, and it felt like a nice start. After that, we went to the mart to buy some essentials for the date - water, snacks, and a mat to sit on.

At the Creative Park, we found a large green lawn with fresh air and a beautiful view of Saigon's skyline. We set everything up and sat down by the Saigon river.

First, I taught Chan how to play Go. She seemed interested and showed her intelligent through how quickly she learned. We played two games - one trial round and one real game, where I kept the score close to make it more fun to her. After that, she invited me to play three games of Caro, and final score was 2-1. It was a great start.

Later, we took some photos, had snacks, and talked. Our conversation flowed naturally from one topic to another, and we share our perspectives.

I shared my expectation of a partner - someone who could be:
- A friend: sharing and listening to small daily things
- A lover: enjoying romantic moments together
- A comrade: understanding and supporting each other's long-term vision
She understood my ideas and asked questions to clarify them.


As someone who is career-focused, I also shared my vision: not just growing within a job, but creating long-term impact - a legacy - whether through a key role in a company, side projects, international work, or mentoring and teaching. I follow a T-shaped model: deep expertise in DFT, while expanding into areas like team-building, management, frontend backend, and business.

She raised concerns about the impact this path could have on family life. Focusing heavy on career could reduce quality time with family. Even if a partner supports it initially, the imbalance might grow - especially with children involved. In extreme cases, she said, a partner might quit her job, leading to frustration and emotional distance. I agreed that balance career and family is a critical challenge.

She also shared stories about friend who rushed into marriage without being fully prepared. Her friend suddenly decided to marry a men who is not idea person in her eyes. She concern about the family as a big risk but she doesn't prepare enough. I completely agreed with her perspective and consider the family as a high-risk, high-return investment. Without enough strength and preparation,, entering that "battlefield" would be unwise. That's also a her weak point when also focusing on negative corner cases.


Finally, we talked directly about our relationship. I shared that I'm not someone who approaches romance easily, but I want to build a closer connection with her. At first, she declined, saying she still sees me as more of a friend that we don't know each other deeply enough yet.

However, after discussing a step-by-step approach, we become more open. She admitted that I was the first man who created interesting emotions for her, which is why she spends quality time talking and going dates with me. She also acknowledged that she is making progress - just at a much slower pace than mine. She feels comfortable with where things are now, while I feel like she's still at the starting line. **Our paces aren't the same, but the direction is.**

We also talked about physical closeness. She's comfortable with gestures like holding hands or a gentle hug, but she doesn't want those to lead a stronger romantic actions yet. I understood and agreed, asking only for clearer responses from her. Eventually, we shared our first romantic hand-holding without any awkwardness.

Regarding financial awareness, she shared a story about a friend who split bills on dates. One day, the man complained that the date was expensive. She immediately sent him haft the bill and ended the connection. Chan agreed with her friend's reaction as the man had clearly states his intentions beforehand.

When she asked for my view, I said dating is an investment - high cost, high return. If he doesn't feel strongly enough, it may not be worth investing further. That's a personal choice. She agreed with this perspective.

We also talked about female making up. A story from her married friend and her husband talked about the original face is better while she intended to make a make up investment. From my point of view, the girl makes up means she have awareness to take care herself. That is the stepping stone for her caring of family. However, it also depend on the two aspects of beaty and finance ability.

We ended the date with a late dinner. It was a really long date, from 4 PM to 11 PM. While riding home, I felt her warmth - her voice, her gestures, and her closeness. She talked more actively, and that felt like a very good sign. After I took her home, we shared a gentle hug. Later, we exchanged a few messages before sleeping.

It wasn’t a dramatic breakthrough — but it was real progress. And that matters more.
